# Code like a designer 
## Intro 

## Code like a designer?
A while ago I wrote a blog post that more or less summed up my thoughts about the whole “Should designers code?” debate. I wrote it because I was tired of seeing the same arguments about designers having more value than just their deliverables (that shouldn’t be something you’re arguing about, you either believe it’s true or you don’t, and if you don’t good luck with that), about designers being expected to do the hands work of developers in addition to their own work, and other arguments that I thought completely missed the whole point of the question. Designers learning how to code isn’t about designers being more like developers, it’s about designers knowing their medium. Designers learning how to code isn’t about designers doing the “additional work” of writing code, because the work of a designer is not “making pictures of things in a desktop publishing app.” Designers learning how to code is about designers learning how to apply all the skills that makes them designers and use code to create artifacts that help them do their job AND are more relevant to a lot of the conversations and work that has to be done to create a piece of software. Period. 

## What is this site?
Code like a designer is an experiment. It’s my attempt to answer the question “what would happen if we taught graphic design fundamentals using the medium of software instead of print?” When you’re using a program like Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator/InDesign or any of the many many clones of those iconic programs, you are using the computer to manipulate the medium of print —— paper and ink. In a lot of ways print is a great medium to learn the fundamentals of 2d design, you have very few variables to manage. The size is fixed. The orientation is fixed. It doesn’t move, or respond. There is a lot of value in exploring these concepts this way, but using the computer to explore them isn’t any better than using a paper and a pencil to explore them. If you’re going to add the complexity of a computer, why not practice in the complexity of the medium of software. Variable view ports. Variable orientations. Motion, sound, interactions, all elements that unfold across a 3rd dimension, time. That’s what what we are going to explore here. 

## This isn’t “software” it’s just the web.
First, the web is software, stop pretending that it isn’t. Secondly, the “web stack” is the most accessible for beginners. Thirdly, the web has proven to be a remarkably good medium for building prototypes of software that it ultimately built using other technologies, because it’s easily distributed and viewed and the web today supports most of the same interactions and interface options of other kinds of native software. In the future, I may decide to expand on this to include other flavors of software, but for now we’re sticking with the web for all the reasons stated above.  